But if you have got buy-in, and
if you haven't been told no,
there's not time for it,
you get in some agreement over the purpose
of your design system is really important,
so what's the main aim of doing it?
Sometimes people create design systems
cuz they wanna unify their brand and
they know that different sites has
ended up with different styling and
there's a lot of inconsistency.
Sometimes it's more about
streamlining development, in which
case you wanna know that up front because
that then needs to be the priority.
So just a little bit of
kind of definition, okay,
what are we trying to achieve here?
So we're not just jumping in and
trying to do everything at once.
So it might be that you focus
initially on, well, okay,
let's just get everything working
with the developers, right?
So they can log into Figma and go,
look, that's the so-and-so component,
here's my code for that,
I'll drop that in.
If that's the initial aim,
then you don't worry that the design isn't
up to scratch or exactly what you want.
You get that working first, and
then you can go back in and
visually change the components afterwards.
So knowing your purpose is really good,
which kind of comes on to scope really.
You also, I mean, this kind of one hand
scope is like, well, do we care about
sorting out the branding or is it
just getting working the development?
But the other aspect of scope is,
are we trying to work this for
just a single project or
all projects, right?
So, especially if you work for
a large organization like a bank, ideally,
you'd like a design system that's
a universal design system that can be used
on everything from your native apps
all the way through to your website,
to your portals, to everything else.
Truth is,
that's probably quite ambitious and
will get bogged down and
take forever to do.
Most situations I recommend, look,
just start small, yeah, just do it for
the native mobile app, maybe even the iOS
app and not the Android app as well.
And you can get more ambitious over time,
but until it gets really well established,
if you let it bloat,
it's like any project, isn't it?
If you let the project bloat,
the bigger it becomes,
the slower it moves to the point
where nothing ever happens, right?
You wanna keep it focused and
keep the scope down.
And also, what's your goal?
Define what success looks like,
is it a faster death cycle,
improved user experience,
increased brand consistency?
Where are you going there?
There's a few questions to ask up front
before you star any work on a design
system, nothing particularly complicated,
but
it's all things worth considering before
you get to kind of pulled in two things.
One is accessibility, how does your design
system ensure accessibility for all users?
You need to agree on aspects that you are
gonna support, you're not gonna support,
do you care about color contrast?
Do you care about keyboard navigation?
Do you care about screen reader support?
It's really useful to know that up front,
so you can build it in from day one.
I'm not making any judgments about whether
you should be including those things, but
you should absolutely be
including those things.
Second, versioning is a big one.
This is a bit dull and a bit boring,
but it's worth talking about.
What's your strategy for managing updates
and changes to your design system?
How are you gonna track
a component's evolution, right?
And let's say you've got a version
of a component on your website,
or your web app, and
you've updated that component.
Do you want to keep the legacy
components are already on the web app?
Or are you gonna replace all of them
in one go to be the new version?
And what the consequences of doing that.
So there's some thinking
through to do there about,
whether you're gonna have multiple
versions of a component available.
Or whether you're always just gonna go
with the latest version of a component and
that kind of stuff.
Now that can all be managed with Figma
has got version control built in,
which is great.
And also I'll talk about some other
tools that bring together design and
development later that can help
manage that kind of thing.
But you need a conversation about it,
yeah.
>> Yeah, for mobile, it's very sensitive.
Because if there's users who have not
decided to update their mobile app and
they're pointing to older
versions of the API.
>> Yeah.
>> And we don't wanna break them, so
we are very, very sensitive to that.
>> Yeah, but some some organizations
take the opposite with that,
where they force people to upgrade.
So they'll log into the app,
and it'll say, sorry,
you can't use this app
until you've upgraded it.
I'm not saying that's right, but
that's the kind of
conversations you need to have.
>> Well, and
the problem with that, though,
is that people might have older phones-
>> That can't upgrade, yeah, yeah.
>> So we can't force them.
>> No, so the other thing is about
responsiveness versus how responsive
you want your components to be,
cuz obviously they could be
placed anywhere on the interface.
So if you've got multiple column design,
some columns might be narrower than
others, the whole design the expand and
contracts or all of those components,
are they gonna work at any size?
What's the minimum size you
expect them to work at?
What's the maximum size you
Should they work in every column type
that you've got in your layout, etc?
And then the final one is dark mode.
And I don't just mean the whole interface
changing to dark, but what if one of
your components is put in a side menu
that's got a dark background to it?
Can the component deal with that?
Is that allowed?
There's those kinds of things that
need to be considered as well.
So those are the big questions I tend to
have knocking around, yeah, go for it.
>> So on the versioning,
do some sort of rules or
agreements about how to name files are how
changes that occur on a Figma document.
>> Yeah.
>> Are those sorts of things does
that fall under this category?
>> Yeah, I mean, again, it's one of those
situations where you can over engineer and
you can fret too much about all of that
kind of stuff which you don't need to
worry about in the early days.
Cuz you'll only have one version to begin
with, but it's at least having a kind
of sense of, well,
how are we going to deal with versioning?
Have the development team want to handle
having multiple versions of a component?
And then, how are we going to track that?
And then, once you've gone have got that
agreement, then that goes on to, okay,
well, how are we gonna name this?
What version numbers are we gonna use,
and things like that.
But that can come a little bit later.
So, normally,
after I've kind of got a rough idea in my
head of what my answers to
these different questions are,
if there's an existing app out there, and
I do want to run a design systems project.
Even though earlier I said, well, maybe
we wanna do it behind the scenes, but
if we do wanna do it properly, then, yeah,
you start by auditing your existing app,
right?
Review your current design and
code assets, understand all the elements,
colors, typography,
UI components, the whole lot, and
how they're being used across the site.
But also pay attention to gaps and
inconsistencies, so
identify discrepancies in the current
design because there will be a lot, right?
Here's an example, this is just some
stuff I grabbed from one that I reviewed.
And there were numerous different
ways of showing filters and
columns, sometimes buttons had icons,
sometimes it didn't.
Sometimes buttons were joined
together in bars other times they
had separates between them,
all of those kinds of things.
So, all of that needs to be identified and
listed.
All of those different versions
of them need to be sought out so
that you can decide, well,
what you're gonna standardize on.
So it does take a while to go
through all of that thing, but
not as long as you think you
can usually do it in a day,
depending on how less if it's
not a particularly big thing.
And all I do is, I literally go through
every screen, and I do screen grabs, okay,
of all the different components and
elements on the screen, and
then I start keeping a list.
And when that element appears on
a second screen, but looks different,
I group it with the first one, right?
So buttons,
here's all the different styles of
buttons that I found across the site.
It's as simple as that really.
You can of course build as you go,
which is what I was talking about earlier.
That said, there are some drawbacks to it,
building components in isolation is quite
hard, so I don't tend to do that way.
Sometimes people go, right,
we've got a new product we're building,
let's start with a design system.
And the designer is expected
to sit down and go, okay,
what is an input box look like on this?
Well, I don't really know,
it depends on the context of
how it appears within a page.
Like I said,
designers think holistically about stuff.
So I would advise instead of mocking up
a whole page and then breaking it down
into components rather than going,
okay, now I'm gonna style a button.
Okay, but let's say everything
else around it looked like.
Be focused, so by only building the,
this is an advantage that,
if you're only building the components
that you actually need rather
than the components that currently exist,
that's great.
Because you can keep your design
system focused and streamlined, and
not including stuff that isn't there.
And of course, all of this means
it's faster and cheaper to produce.
So there's a lot going for building as
you go or building for a new service, but
don't think you're gonna just,
if it's a new service,
you're gonna sit down and
build those components individually, yeah.
>> Is what you're describing,
the user interface designer
doing their own design system.
>> I'm not quite sure, yes and no, right?
>> So when you say for example,
you're doing a design system for a button.
>> Yes.
>> But
then my designer might be like this,
I don't know what the designer is
thinking in terms of their button style.
>> Yeah, so-
>> Colors and
their fonts-
>> What I'm saying it's that designer that
should be creating the design system
in conjunction with the developer to
make sure that they're not
doing anything stupid.
[LAUGH] So but it would mainly be, yes,
that the UI designer would sit down and
go through and create the button,
the links, link colors,
the input fields, all of those things.
But what I'm saying is, is that them doing
that just on each individual component by
itself messes with your head, you got
to think in terms of whole screens,
otherwise, it's gonna throw
you a little bit, make sense?
>> But isn't there some In terms of
role of somebody just being a design
systems person?
>> I would say no.
I think it's good to have somebody that
owns the design system, right, and
is ultimately responsible for it.
But basically,
certainly from the design perspective,
that is gonna be a UI designer, right?
So let's say you had it there,
and even then, I would say,
let's say you work in an organization
where you've got, I don't know,
five different UI designers spread
across different departments, right?
Not uncommon,
I would suggest that, together,
they could create the design
system between them.
One person ultimately owns it just so that
you've got one person that's accountable,
but anybody can put forward and
submit a new component, right?
So if they're working on something and go,
we've got no component for that, right?
That I want to do, that's fine,
they can create a new one, right?
Or they might go, this component's
no longer fit for purpose for
whatever reason,
then they can create a new one.
And I'll come on to a minute
about how to manage that,
because obviously you can
imagine chaos ensuing [LAUGH].
So I will touch on that in a minute.